Okay,
guys and welcome back and never can have a look.
The other type of message box.
And that is the message box where you can return values from the user,
depending on which,
but Nate click now the set up it's slightly different.
So here's the shell of the code,
this particular demos called Message boxes for and,
as always,
in your get code here,
tab on Michy.
You can get all the code that we've used in the last few lectures,
and you can download that sticking into a module on.
You'll be able to follow along.
Okay,
so we have message boxes for I have set up a locally declared valuable called my response
on the format for writing a message box where you want to read the button that they pressed
begins with my response or whatever the name of your variable is.
So my response equals member going to carry on as we did before.
So began anti MSG B o X,
and here's the thing that's different.
You also type and open brackets,
and now you can see that we have the prompt.
So what we want to say is,
would what would really like to.
Would you like to clear the sheet?
What?
Say that.
And then I'm gonna hit comma.
And then you can see that we get these choices,
we get abort,
hoping that that's in shot.
What I'm gonna do is I'm gonna scroll them.
You have multiple options.
I'm just gonna choose VB.
Yes.
No.
And what I'm gonna do here just so we can see is headspace hitting under school and hit
Enter on.
That way,
we should be able to see it all on the same screen.
OK,
so would you like to clear the sheet?
Yes.
No comma on the title and I'm gonna put clear sheet.
I like to capitalize titles,
Clear sheet question mark,
close quotes,
close brackets because we open brackets,
we have to finish the arguments by closing the brackets.
Enter a few times.
Okay,
we're going to step through that and observe what happens.
So as we execute this code,
we get this little message box pop up and you can see Is we chose VB.
Yes.
No,
we have the yes button and we have the no button clear sheet is the title Would you like to
clear the sheet?
is our prompt here.
So I'm gonna hit.
Yes,
and I'm gonna hover over my response on.
We can see there that the response to yes is equal to six.
So six equals,
Yes,
I'm just going to stop and step through that again.
And this time I'm gonna click.
No.
And then I'm gonna hover of response and we can see that seven is equal to know.
So that's till there's something very useful.
We can now test which button was pressed by knowing whether the response for six yes or
seven,
which was No.
So now we can stop that code and write something more useful.
And what we gonna do is a simple,
logical test to find out if you the six.
Yes or seven.
No was pressed.
So I'm just going to say if my response equals six,
that is yes,
was pressed then.
And I'm just going to do my end if to make sure that I don't miss it,
I'm gonna add my else.
So if my response equals six,
that is yes,
was pressed,
then sells dot clear contents on that you go.
So if they do want to clear the sheet,
then this line of code will execute because my response equals six,
which is yes,
failing that.
I'm just going to say and that will end this subroutine right there.
So let's just step through that.
Would you like to clear the sheet?
Yes.
And you can see my response equal.
Six.
So how logical Test will evaluate to true on this line of code will execute song in the
press f eight notice what happens over in Excel on all the contents it cleared.
And if let's just run that through again on this time,
hit no.
And noticed that our response is now seven,
which doesn't equal six.
So we're going to come down to this line of code here else end,
and then the code finishes.
So have a play around with the message boxes and change the different options here.
My advice would be to play with them and do exactly as we just did that run through to this
point,
hover over the name of your valuable and find out what the number is for the response that
they gave.
So if you have a VB Yes.
No.
Counsel counsel will have a different number two.
Yes and no.
Okay.
I will see you in the next lecture.